---
layout: post
title: "Fake MK802 in the Wild"
author: CF
description: ""
category: 
tags: [bacnet, wacnet]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

While exploring for new distributors of miniature computers, we found
out that at least 2 of them sent us fake products.

They marketed them as the awesome *MK802 Allwinner A10*, which we know
and love, because it runs [Wacnet](https://hvac.io/docs/wacnet) very
well. However, upon reception of the product, nothing worked. We
copied the programs into the devices, powered them on... but the
screens remained blank.

It took us a while to discover that those *are fake products*. Perhaps
they think that as long as the average consumer doesn't notice, it's
okay to make false advertising and ship a lesser product instead.

You can check yourself: The MK802 is supposed to come with the
Allwinner *A10*. Everywhere the MK802s are announced as based on the
*A10*. Some manufacturers, certainly to save money with a cheaper
system, decided to use the *A10s* instead, **which is a totally
different system**. I can't stress this enough. It's as if you went
and bought a Pathfinder, but received a Versa instead. Those are not
the same car!

Lift the veil and you'll see the difference. Here are pictures of
these systems without their plastic enclosures.

One side:

![Allwinner A10 side 1](/images/A10-side1.JPG "A10 side 1")
![Allwinner A10s side 1](/images/A10s-side1.JPG "A10s side 1")

The other side:

![Allwinner A10 side 2](/images/A10-side2.JPG "A10 side 2")
![Allwinner A10s side 2](/images/A10s-side2.JPG "A10s side 2")

If you intend to buy these devices, be careful. There is no way to
differentiate between the genuine products from the fakes simply by
looking at their enclosures.
