---
layout: post
title: "Wacnet 1.1.6"
author: CF
description: ""
category: 
tags: [bacnet, wacnet]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Howdy folks,

We just released a new version of Wacnet.

You can download it here:
[Download Wacnet](https://hvac.io/docs/wacnet). If you are on the
mailing list, you should already have received a direct download link.


<video autoplay='autoplay' class='well' controls='true' loop='true' width='100%'><source src='/videos/wacnet-1.1.0.webm' type='video/webm'><source src='/videos/wacnet-1.1.0.ogv' type='video/ogg'><source src='/videos/wacnet-1.1.0.mp4' type='video/mp4'>Your browser doesn't let you see the video... fear not! To see the BACnet Explorer video, click <a href='/videos/wacnet-1.1.0.webm'>here</a>.</video>


As usual, it contains many little improvements. Most are invisible and
only affect BACnet networks communication. (For example, Wacnet now
sends a I-Am broadcast when it boots.)

There is one improvement that you might notice however: we added
caching for the explorer.

## Caching

Every time a property value is fetched from a remote device, it's
stored in memory. When the same property is rechecked, the value
stored in memory will be returned, instead of re-querying the remote
device.

For release 1.1.6, the default caching time is 5 minutes. Once the 5
minutes are elapsed, the value in memory expires. From then, any
attempt to read this value will cause a normal property read over the
network and the result obtained will be cached again for 5 minutes.

While you still need to load some of the remote devices properties
when first checking them in the explorer, you can now check other
devices without having to reload everything when coming back to
devices you have already seen.

This is especially useful when browsing an MS/TP network, as you won't
need to re-fetch the data from the remote devices.


### Implementation

If you are interested in seeing how the caching is implemented, you
can take a look at the
[caching namespace](https://github.com/Frozenlock/bacure/blob/master/src/bacure/read_properties_cached.clj)
in Bacure. That's right, don't forget that Wacnet is completely open
source!
